"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

app_style potts/strain command :h3

[Syntax:]

app_style potts/strain Q :pre

potts/strain = application style name
Q = number of spin states :ul

[Examples:]

app_style potts/strain 100 :pre

[Description:]

This is an on-lattice application which evolve a Q-state Potts model
with a per-site strain, where each lattice site has a spin value from
1 to Q.  Sites flip their spin as the model evolves.  The strain
energy can influence the grain growth.

The Hamiltonian representing the energy of site I is the
same as for the Potts model:

Hi = Sum_j delta_ij :pre

where Sum_j is a sum over all the neighbor sites of site I and
delta_ij is 0 if the spin of sites I and J are the same and 1 if they
are different.  The energy of the entire system is the sum of Hi over
all sites.

The per-site strain influences spin flips through altering the
effective temperature as discussed below.

This applications perform Glauber dynamics, meaning the spin is
flipped on a single site.  See "app_style
diffusion"_app_diffusion.html for an Ising model which performs
Kawasaki dynamics, meaning the spins on two neighboring sites are
swapped.

As explained on "this page"_app_style.html, this application is
evolved by a kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) algorithm.  You must thus
define a KMC solver to be used with the application via the
"solve_style"_solve_style.html command.

For solution by a KMC algorithm, a site event is a spin flip and its
probability is 1/(1+strain) when dE <= 0 and exp(-dE/kT*) when dE > 0
and the temperature T is finite, where dE = Efinal - Einitial using
the Hamiltonian defined above for the energy of the site, T is the
temperature of the system defined by the
"temperature"_temperature.html command (which includes the Boltzmann
constant k implicitly), and T* = T (1 + strain).  Thus the effect of
the strain, defined for each site, is to rescale the temperature.

The KMC algorithm does not allow spin flips known as "wild" flips,
even at finite temperature.  These are flips to values that are not
equal to any neighbor site value.

Strain values are stored for each site as a "double" value.  This
means they can be assigned to each site using the "d1" keyword with
the "set"_set.html command, or read in via the
"read_sites"_read_sites.html command.

The application does not change the strain assigned to each site as
the simulation progresses.  But if SPPARKS is built and used as a
library, as discussed in "this section"_Section_start.html#2_4 of the
manual, the driver program can alter the per-site settings.  The
"couple" directory of the "LAMMPS molecular dynamics package"_lammps
includes a sample coupled LAMMPS/SPPARKS application which uses LAMMPS
to compute strain values at each site of a snapshot of grain structure
produced by this application running in SPPARKS.  The strains are
passed back to SPPARKS periodically by the driver application so that
more Monte Carlo dynamics can be performed.

:link(lammps,http://lammps.sandia.gov)

:line

The following additional command is defined by this application:

"temperature"_temperature.html : set Monte Carlo temperature :tb(s=:)

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"app_style potts"_app_potts.html

[Default:] none
