"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

app_style potts/pin command :h3

[Syntax:]

app_style potts/pin Q :pre

potts/pin = application style name
Q = number of spin states :ul

[Examples:]

app_style potts/pin 100 :pre

[Description:]

This is an on-lattice application which evolves a Q-state Potts model
in the presence of pinning sites, which are sites tagged with a spin
value of Q+1 which do not change.  Their effect is typically to pin or
inhibit grain growth in various ways.

The Hamiltonian representing the energy of site I is as follows:

Hi = Sum_j delta_ij :pre

where Sum_j is a sum over all the neighbor sites of site I and
delta_ij is 0 if the spin of sites I and J are the same and 1 if they
are different.  The energy of the entire system is the sum of Hi over
all sites.

This application performs Glauber dynamics, meaning the spin is
flipped on a single site.  See "app_style
diffusion"_app_diffusion.html for an Ising model which performs
Kawasaki dynamics, meaning the spins on two neighboring sites are
swapped.

As explained on "this page"_app_style.html, this application can be
evolved by either a kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) or rejection KMC (rKMC)
algorithm.  You must thus define a KMC solver or sweeping method to be
used with the application via the "solve_style"_solve_style.html or
"sweep"_sweep.html commands.

For solution by a KMC algorithm, a site event is a spin flip and its
probability is min\[1,exp(-dE/kT)\], where dE = Efinal - Einitial
using the Hamiltonian defined above for the energy of the site, and T
is the temperature of the system defined by the
"temperature"_temperature.html command (which includes the Boltzmann
constant k implicitly).  The KMC algorithm does not allow spin flips
known as "wild" flips, even at finite temperaturge.  These are flips to
values that are not equal to any neighbor site value.  The KMC
algorithm also does not allow spin flips to a pinned site value.

For solution by a rKMC algorithm, a random spin from 1 to Q is chosen.
Note that this does not allow a spin flip to a pinned site value,
since those sites are set to Q+1.  When the flip is attempted dE =
Efinal - Einitial is calculated, as is a uniform random number R
between 0 and 1.  The new state is accepted if R <
min\[1,exp(-dE/kT)\], else it is rejected.

:line

The following additional commands are defined by this application:

"pin"_pin.html : create a set of pinned sites
"temperature"_temperature.html : set Monte Carlo temperature :tb(s=:)

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"app_style potts"_app_potts.html

[Default:] none
