"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

create_sites command :h3

[Syntax:]

create_sites style arg keyword values ... :pre

style = {box} or {region} :ulb,l
  {box} arg = none
  {region} arg = region-ID
    region-ID = sites will only be created if contained in the region :pre
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {value} or {basis} :l
  {value} values = label nvalue
    label = {site} or {iN} or {dN}
    nvalue = specific value to set all created sites to
  {basis} values = M nvalue
    M = which basis site (see asterisk form below)
    nvalue = specific value to set all created basis sites to :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

create_sites box
create_sites region surf value site 1
create_sites box value i2 0 basis 1 1 basis 2* 2 :pre

[Description:]

This command creates "sites" on a lattice for on-lattice and
off-lattice applications.  For on-lattice applications it also defines
a connectivity between sites that is stored as a neighbor list of
nearby sites that each site interacts with.

This command is an alternative to reading in site coordinates and
neighbor connectivity via the "read_sites"_read_sites.html command.

To use this command, a simulation box must already exist, created via
the "create_box"_create_box.html command.  Likewise a lattice must
also be defined using the "lattice"_lattice.html command.

In SPPARKS, a "site" is a point in space at which an application, as
defined by the "app_style"_app_style.html command, can perform events.
For on-lattice applications, the site is static and has a static set
of neighboring sites with which it interacts.  For off-lattice
applications, a site is like a particle.  It moves and has a dynamic
neighborhood of nearby particles with which it interacts.

This command generates the set of lattice points that fall within the
simulation box.  For any periodic dimension, as specified by the
"boundary"_boundary.html command, the simulation box size must be an
integer multiple of the lattice constant, to insure consistent
placement of sites near periodic boundaries.  SPPARKS is careful to
put exactly one site at a periodic boundary (on either side of the
box), not zero or two.  For non-periodic dimensions, no checking near
boundaries is done; if the point is inside or on the boundary, it is a
site.  The one exception is that points that lie exactly on the upper
boundary (in a non-periodic dimension) are considered to be outside
the box.  Thus in non-periodic dimensions you may need to tweak the
simulation box size to get precisely the sites you want.

For the {box} style, all lattice points that fall inside the
simulation box are stored as sites, as described in the preceding
paragraph.  For the {region} style, a lattice point must additionally
be consistent with the region volume to be stored as a site.  Note
that a region can be specified so that its volume is either inside or
outside a geometric boundary.

For on-lattice applications, after sites have been created, a neighbor
list is also generated for each site, as defined by each "lattice
style"_lattice.html.  Think of this as the set of lattice points near
a central site, with which it interacts in the sense defined by an
application.  If the simulation box is periodic in a dimension, the
neighbors of a central site may include sites on the other side of the
box.  This will not be the case for a non-periodic dimension.  If some
sites do not exist, e.g. when using the {region} style, then some
sites will not have a complete set of neighbors.

:line

SPPARKS attempts to create sites with consecutive IDs from 1 to N,
where N is the total number of sites that fill the simulation box.
The numbering is the same, independent of the number of processors.
Note that if the simulation box is non-periodic or the {region} style
is used, some sites may not exist, so the site IDs will not typically
be contiguous.  I.e. the largest ID will be greater than the number of
created sites.

Depending on the "application"_app_style.html, each site stores zero
of more integer and floating-point values.  By default these are set
to zero when a site is created by this command.  The {value} and
{basis} keywords can override the default.

The {value} keyword specifies a per-site value that will be assigned
to every site as it is created.  The {label} determines which per-site
quantity is set.  {iN} and {dN} mean the Nth integer or floating-point
quantity, with 1 <= N <= Nmax.  Nmax is defined by the application.
If {label} is specified as {site} it is the same as {i1}.  The
quantity is set to the specified {nvalue}, which should be either an
integer or floating-point numeric value, depending on what kind of
per-site quantity is being set.

The {basis} keyword can be used to override the {value} keyword
setting for individual basis sites as each unit cell is created.  The
per-site quantity (e.g. i2) specified by the {value} keyword is set
for basis sites {M}.  The quantity is set to the specified {nvalue}
for the {basis} keyword, instead of the {nvalue} from the {value}
keyword.  See the "lattice"_lattice.html command for specifics on how
basis atoms and unit cells are defined for each lattice style.

M can be specified in one of two ways.  An explicit numeric value can
be used, such as 2.  A wild-card asterisk can also be used in place of
or in conjunction with the M argument to specify multiple basis sites
together.  This takes the form "*" or "*n" or "n*" or "m*n".  If N =
the total number of basis sites, then an asterisk with no numeric
values means all sites from 1 to N.  A leading asterisk means all
sites from 1 to n (inclusive).  A trailing asterisk means all sites
from n to N (inclusive).  A middle asterisk means all sites from m to
n (inclusive).

[Restrictions:]

The "app_style"_app_style.html command must be used to define an
application before using the create_sites command.  The
"create_box"_create_box.html command must be used to to define the
simulation box before using the create_sites_command.

[Related commands:]

"lattice"_lattice.html, "region"_region.html,
"create_box"_create_box.html, "read_sites"_read_sites.html

[Default:] none
