"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

jump command :h3

[Syntax:]

jump file label :pre

file = filename of new input script to switch to
label = optional label within file to jump to :ul

[Examples:]

jump newfile
jump in.run2 runloop :pre

[Description:]

This command closes the current input script file, opens the file with
the specified name, and begins reading SPPARKS commands from that file.
The original file is not returned to, although by using multiple jump
commands it is possible to chain from file to file or back to the
original file.

Optionally, if a 2nd argument is used, it is treated as a label and
the new file is scanned (without executing commands) until the label
is found, and commands are executed from that point forward.  This can
be used to loop over a portion of the input script, as in this
example.  These commands perform 10 runs, each of 10000 steps, and
create 10 dump files named file.1, file.2, etc.  The "next"_next.html
command is used to exit the loop after 10 iterations.  When the "a"
variable has been incremented for the tenth time, it will cause the
next jump command to be skipped.

variable a loop 10
label loop
run 5.0
next a
jump in.lj loop :pre

If the jump {file} argument is a variable, the jump command can be
used to cause different processor partitions to run different input
scripts.  In this example, SPPARKS is run on 40 processors, with 4
partitions of 10 procs each.  An in.file containing the example
variable and jump command will cause each partition to run a different
simulation.

mpirun -np 40 lmp_ibm -partition 4x10 -in in.file :pre

variable f world script.1 script.2 script.3 script.4
jump $f :pre

[Restrictions:]

If you jump to a file and it does not contain the specified label,
SPPARKS will come to the end of the file and exit.

[Related commands:]

"variable"_variable.html, "include"_include.html, "label"_label.html,
"next"_next.html

[Default:] none
