"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

pin command :h3

[Syntax:]

pin fraction multiflag nthresh :pre

fraction = fraction of sites (0 to 1) to convert to pinned sites
multiflag = 0 for single sites, 1 for sites+neighbors
nthresh = # of neighbor sites which must have different spins :ul

[Examples:]

pin 0.1 0 2 :pre

[Description:]

This command converts sites on a lattice to pinned sites by setting
their spin value to Q+1, where Q is defined by a Potts model.  This
command can only be used by the "app_style
potts/pin"_app_potts_pin.html application.  The size of the inclusions
and their location (anywhere or preferentially near grain boundaries)
can be controlled by the {multiflag} and {nthresh} parameters.

The way pinned sites are selected is as follows.  A pinned site is
chosen randomly.  If the site is already a pinned site, then another
site is selected.  If {multiflag} is set to 1, then if any of the
site's neighbors are already a pinned site, then another site is
selected.  If {nthresh} is a non-zero value, then the # of neighbor
sites with spin values different than the chosen site are counted.  If
the count is less than {nthresh}, then another site is selected.

Once the site is selected, just that site is converted to a pinned site
if {multiflag} is 0.  If {multiflag} is 1, then the site plus all
its neibhbors are converted to pinned sites.

This process continues until the desired fraction of changed sites is
achieved.  The entire process is done in a way that should be
independent of the number of processors used to run a particular
simulation.

Note that if you pick a large volume fraction and/or a high value for
{nthresh} it is possible that SPPARKS will never find enough valid
sites to convert to pinned sites.  It will then loop endlessly.

[Restrictions:] none

This command can only be used as part of the "app_style
potts/pin"_app_potts_pin.html and related applications.

[Related commands:]

"app_style potts/pin"_app_potts_pin.html

[Default:] none
