"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

sector command :h3

[Syntax:]

sector flag keyword value ... :pre

flag = {yes} or {no} or {N} where N = 2,4,8 :ulb,l
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {tstop} or {nstop} :l
  {tstop} value = dt
    dt = elapsed time for events to perform within sector (seconds)
  {nstop} value = N
    N = average number of events per site to perform within sector :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

sector no
sector yes
sector 4
sector yes nstop 0.5
sector yes tstop 5.0 :pre

[Description:]

This command partitions the portion of the simulation domain owned by
each processor into sectors or sub-domains.  It can only be used for
"on-lattice applications"_app_style.html.  Typically, it is used in a
parallel simulation, to enable parallelism, but it can also be used on
a single processor.

If sectoring is enabled via the {yes} setting, then for 1d lattices,
each processor's sub-domain is partioned into 2 halves, for 2d
lattices, each processor's sub-domain is partitioned into 4 quadrants,
and for 3d lattices it is partitioned into 8 octants.  If the {N}
setting is used instead, then the number of sectors can be specified
directly.  This may be useful in some models to reduce communication.
A 3d lattice can use 2 (x only) or 4 sectors (x and y), instead of the
default 8 (x and y and z).  A 2d lattice can use 2 sectors (x only),
instead of the default 4 (x and y).  Note that if no sectors are used
in a dimension, then there must be only one processor assigned to that
dimension of the simulation box (see the "app_style
procs"_app_style.html command).  For example, if "sector 2" is used
for a 2d lattice, then the processor layout must be Px1, where P is
the total number of processors.

If sectors are turned on, then a kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) or
rejection KMC (rKMC) algorithm is performed in the following manner.
Events or sites are selected within the first sector on each
processor, via a "solver"_solve_style.html or "sweeping
method"_sweep.html.  Communication is then done between processors to
update sector boundaries.  Then all proecessors move to the next
sector, and the process is repeated.  Thus a single sweep over the
entire lattice is performed in 2 (or 4 or 8) stages for 1d (of 2d or
3d) lattices, as sectors are processed one at a time, followed by the
appropriate communication.  This procedure insure events occurring on
one processor do not conflict with events performed by other
processors.

The optional keywords determine how much time is spent on each sector
(i.e. how many events are performed) before moving to the next sector.
See the discussion below for what they mean when sectoring is set to
{no}.

Note that using sectors turns an exact KMC or rKMC algorithm into an
approximate one, in the spirit of "Amar"_#Amar.  This is because
events are occuring within a sector while the state of the system on
the boundary of the sector is held frozen.  If the time-per-sector is
too large, this will require less communication but will induce
incorrect dynamics at the sector boundaries.  Conversely, if the
time-per-sector is too small, the simulation will perform few events
per sector and spend too much time communicating.

If the {tstop} keyword is set to a value > 0.0, it sets the time per
sector to the specified value.  For a KMC algorithm, events are
performed until this time threshhold is reached.  The final event,
whose time >= tstop, is not accepted.  For a rKMC algorithm, the time
per attempted event = dt_sweep is defined by the application, and the
number of attempted events in each sector is set to
nsite*int(tstop/dt_sweep).  Because of integer truncation, the
simulation time increment in rKMC may differ slightly from the
specified tstop.

If the {nstop} keyword is set to a value > 0.0, it sets the average
number of events (or attempts) per site.  For example, an {nstop}
value of 2.0 means attempt 2 events per site for a rKMC algorithm.
For a KMC algorithm, this is converted into a time using pmax = the
maximum propensity per site.  At the start of each visit to a sector,
the per-site propensity for the sector = psect, is computed.  Psect is
the total propensity of the sector divided by the total number of
active sites, which are those with propensity greater than zero.
After all sectors have been visited, pmax is set to the largest value
of psect across all processors and sectors, and the threshold time for
the next visit to each sector is set to nstop/pmax.

In the KMC case, this means that if the total propensity of the system
decreases as the simulation proceeds (e.g. grain growth occurs), then
the effective time per sweep will increase in an adaptive way.  Said
another way, the number of events per sweep will remain roughly
constant, as the time per event increases.  In the rKMC case, the time
per attempt is constant due to the use of a null-bin, so there is no
adaptivity.

If neither the {tstop} or {nstop} keywords are specified, a default
value of nstop = 1.0 is used, meaning one event per site is performed
or attempted in the KMC or rKMC algorithm in each sector.  This should
give good behavior in many applications, meaning high accuracy is
achieved with good parallel performance due to a modest amount of
communication being performed.

Note that it makes no sense to specify both {tstop} and {nstop} since
they define the time-per-sector in different ways.  When {tstop} is
specified, it sets {nstop} to 0.0.  Likewise when {nstop} is
specified, it sets {tstop} to 0.0.  Thus if both are used, the last
setting takes precedence.

If sectors are turned off via the {no} setting, then the {nstop} or
{tstop} settings still have an effect for rKMC simulations where the
"sweep"_sweep.html style is set to {color}.  They determine how many
times the sites associated with each color are looped over before
moving to the next color.  Normally, this should just be 1, which is
the {nstop} default, but this can be changed if desired.

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used as part of on-lattice applications
as specified by the "app_style"_app_style.html command.

[Related commands:]

"app_style"_app_style.html, "solve_style"_solve_style.html,
"sweep"_sweep.html

[Default:]

The default for sectoring is {no} and the option defaults are nstop =
1.0 and tstop = 0.0.

:line

:link(Amar)
[(Amar)] Shin and Amar, Phys Rev B, 71, 125432-1-125432-13 (2005).
