"Previous Section"_Section_howto.html - "SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws -
"SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc - "Next
Section"_Section_perf.html :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

5. Example problems :h3

The SPPARKS distribution includes an examples sub-directory with
several sample problems.  Each problem is in a sub-directory of its
own.  Most are small models that can be run quickly, requiring at most
a couple of minutes to run on a desktop machine.  Each problem has an
input script (in.*) and produces a log file (log.*) and dump file
(dump.*) when it runs.  A few sample log file outputs on different
machines and different numbers of processors are included in the
directories to compare your answers to.  E.g. a log file like
log.potts.foo.P means it ran on P processors of machine "foo".

In some cases, the dump files produced by the example runs can be
animated using the various visuzlization tools, such as the Pizza.py
toolkit referenced in the "Additional Tools"_Section_tools.html
section of the SPPARKS documentation.  Animations of some of these
examples can be viewed on the Movies section of the "SPPARKS WWW
Site"_sws.

These are the sample problems in the examples sub-directories:

groups: test of group-based KMC solver
ising: standard Ising model
membrane: membrane model of pore formation around protein inclusions
potts: multi-state Potts model for grain growth :tb(s=:)

Here is how you might run and visualize one of the sample problems:

cd examples/potts
cp ../../src/spk_linux .           # copy SPPARKS executable to this dir
spk_linux < in.potts               # run the problem :pre

Running the simulation produces the files {dump.potts} and
{log.spparks}.

If you add "dump image"_dump_image.html line(s) to the input script a
series of JPG images will be produced by the run.  These can be viewed
individually or turned into a movie or animated by tools like
ImageMagick or QuickTime or various Windows-based tools.  See the
"dump image"_dump_image.html doc page for more details.  E.g. this
Imagemagick command would create a GIF file suitable for viewing in a
browser.

% convert -loop 1 *.jpg foo.gif :pre

:line

There is also a COUPLE directory with examples of how to use SPPARKS
as a library, either by itself or in tandem with another code or
library.  See the COUPLE/README file to get started.
