"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

solve_style command :h3

[Syntax:]

solve_style style args keyword value ... :pre

style = {linear} or {tree} or {group} or {none} :ulb,l
  {linear} arg = none
  {tree} arg = none
  {group} args = hi lo 
    hi,lo = range of allowed probabilities
  {none} arg = none :pre
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {ngroup} :l
  {ngroup} value = N
    N = # of groups to use :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

solve_style linear
solve_style tree
solve_style group 1.0 1.0e-6
solve_style group 100.0 1.0 ngroup 10 :pre

[Description:]

Choose a kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) solver to use in your
"application"_app_style.html.  If no "sweeper"_sweep.html is used then
a solver is required.

A KMC solver picks events for your application to perform from a list
of events and their associated probabilities.  It does this using the
standard "Gillespie"_#Gillespie or "BKL"_#BKL algorithm which also
computes a timestep during which the chosen event occus.  The only
difference between the various solver styles is the algorithm they use
to select events which affects their speed and scalability as a
function of the number of events they choose from.  The {linear}
solver may be suitable for simulations with few events; the {tree} or
{group} solver should be used for larger simulations.

The {linear} style chooses an event by scanning the list of events in
a linear fashion.  Hence the cost to pick an event scales as O(N),
where N is the number of events.

The {tree} style chooses an event by creating a binary tree of
probabilities and their sums, as in the "Gibson/Bruck"_#Gibson
implementation of the Gillespie direct method algorithm.  Its cost to
pick an event scales as O(logN).

The {group} style chooses an event using the composition and rejection
(CR) algorithm described originally in "Devroye"_#Devroye and
discussed in "Slepoy"_#Slepoy.  Its cost to pick an event scales as
O(1) as it is a constant time algorithm.  It requires that you bound
the {hi} and {lo} probabilities for any event that will be considered
with the solver.  Note that for on-lattice applications this is
typically the total probability of all events associated with a site.
The value of {lo} must be > 0.0 and {lo} cannot be >= {hi}.  For
efficiency purposes it is good to choose bounds that are reasonably
tight.

By default, the {group} style will create groups whose boundaries
cascade downward in powers of 2 from {hi} to {lo}.  I.e. the first
group is from hi/2 to hi, the second group is from hi/4 to hi/2, and
continuing until {lo} is reached.  Note that for hi/lo = 1.0e6, there
would thus be about 20 groups.

If the {ngroup} keyword is used, then it specifies the number of
groups to use between {lo} and {hi} and they will be equal in extent.
E.g. for {ngroup} = 3, the first group is from lo to lo + (hi-lo)/3,
the second group is from lo + 2*(hi-lo)/3, and the third group is from
lo + 2*(hi-lo)/3 to hi.

IMPORTANT NOTE: For the {group} style, if an event is generated that
has a probability = 0.0 (e.g. a site has no possible event), that is
not a violation of the {lo} bound.  However if an event is generated
with a non-zero probability and the probability is less than {lo} or
greater than {hi}, then the probability is reset by the solver to the
{lo} or {hi} bound.  If this occurs during a run, SPPARKS will print
out a warning message (either before the run, or at the end of the
script), since it indicates events have been selected using (slightly)
different probabilities than the model generated.  This allows you to
set a different {lo} or {hi} bound and re-run the simulation.

The {none} style deletes any KMC solver previously defined.  This may
be useful for transitioning from a KMC solver in one run to a
"sweeping method"_sweep.html with a rejection-KMC solver in a
subsequent run.

[Restrictions:]

The {ngroup} keyword can only be used with style {group}.

[Related commands:]

"app_style"_app_style.html, "sweep_style"_sweep_style.html

[Default:] none

:line

:link(Gillespie)
[(Gillespie)] Gillespie, J Comp Phys, 22, 403-434 (1976);
Gillespie, J Phys Chem, 81, 2340-2361 (1977).

:link(BKL)
[(BKL)] Bortz, Kalos, Lebowitz, J Comp Phys, 17, 10 (1975).

:link(Gibson)
[(Gibson)] Gibson and Bruck, J Phys Chem, 104, 1876 (2000).

:link(Devroye)
[(Devroye)] Devroye, "Non-Uniform Random Variate Generation"_book,
Springer-Verlag, New York (1986).

:link(book,http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/rnbookindex.html)

:link(Slepoy)
[(Slepoy)] Slepoy, Thompson, Plimpton, J Chem Phys, 128, 205101 (2008).
