"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

sweep command :h3

[Syntax:]

sweep style keyword value ... :pre

style = {random} or {raster} or {color} or {color/strict} or {none} :ulb,l
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {mask} :l
  {mask} value = {yes} or {no}
    yes/no = mask out sites than cannot change :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

sweep random
sweep raster mask yes ... :pre

[Description:]

Use a rejection kinetic Monte Carlo (rKMC) algorithm for an
"on-lattice application"_app_style.html.  If rKMC is not used then a
kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) algorithm must be used as defined by the
"solve_style"_solve_style.html command.

The rKMC algorithm in SPPARKS selects sites on a lattice in an order
determined by this command and requests that the application perform
events.  The application defines the geometry and connectivity of the
lattice, what the possible events are, and defines their rates and
acceptance/rejection criteria.

The ordering of selected sites is also affected by the
"sector"_sector.html command, which partitions each processor's
portion of the simulation domain into sectors which are quadrants (2d)
or octants (3d).  In this case, the ordering described below is within
each sector.  Sectors are looped over one at a time, interleaved by
communication of lattice values inbetween.

For the {random} style, sites are chosen randomly, one at a time.

For the {raster} style, a sweep of the lattice is done, as a loop over
all sites in a pre-determined order, e.g. a triple loop over i,j,k for
a 3d cubic lattice.

For the {color} style, lattice sites are partitioned into sub-groups
or colors which are non-interacting in the sense that events on two
sites of the same color can be perfored simultaneously without
conflict.  This enables parallelism since events on all sites of the
same color can be attempted simultaneously.  Similar to sectors, the
colors are looped over, interleaved by communication of lattice
values inbetween.

The {color/strict} style is the same as the {color} style except that
random numbers are generated in a way that is independent of the
processor which generates them.  Thus SPPARKS should produce the same
answer, independent of how many processors are used.  This can be
useful in debugging an application.

If the application supports it, the {mask} keyword can be set to {yes}
to skip sites which cannot perform an event due to the current value
of the site and its neighbors.  Enabling masking should not change the
answer given by a simulation (in a statistical sense); it only offers
a computational speed-up.  For example, sites in the interior of
grains in a Potts grain-growth model may have no potential of flipping
their value.  Masking can only be set to {yes} if the
"temperature"_temperature.html is set to 0.0, since otherwise there is
a finite probability of any site performing an event.

The {none} style deletes any rKMC sweeping algorithm previously
defined.  This may be useful for transitioning from a rKMC solver in
one run to a "KMC solver"_solve_style.html in a subsequent run.

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used as part of on-lattice applications
as specified by the "app_style"_app_style.html command.

Not all lattice styles and applications support the {color} and
{color/strict} styles.  Not all applications support the {mask}
option.

[Related commands:]

"app_style"_app_style.html, "solve_style"_solve_style.html,
"sector"_sector.html

[Default:]

The option defaults are mask = no.
