"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://spparks.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

variable command :h3

[Syntax:]

variable name style args ... :pre

name = name of variable to define :ulb,l
style = {index} or {loop} or {world} or {universe} or {uloop} or {equal} or {atom} :l
  {index} args = one or more strings
  {loop} args = N = integer size of loop
  {world} args = one string for each partition of processors
  {universe} args = one or more strings
  {uloop} args = N = integer size of loop
  {equal} args = one formula containing numbers, math operations, variable references
    numbers = 0.0, 100, -5.4, 2.8e-4, etc
    constants = PI
    keywords = time, nglobal
    math operations = (), -x, x+y, x-y, x*y, x/y, x^y, 
                      sqrt(x), exp(x), ln(x), log(x),
                      sin(x), cos(x), tan(x), asin(x), acos(x), atan(x),
                      ceil(x), floor(x), round(x)
    other variables = v_abc, v_n :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

variable x index run1 run2 run3 run4 run5 run6 run7 run8
variable LoopVar loop $n
variable MyValue equal 5.0*exp(v_energy/(v_boltz*v_Temp))
variable beta equal v_temp/3.0
variable temp world 300.0 310.0 320.0 $\{Tfinal\}
variable x universe 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
variable x uloop 15 :pre

[Description:]

This command assigns one or more strings to a variable name for
evaluation later in the input script or during a simulation.

Variables can be used in several ways in SPPARKS.  A variable can be
referenced elsewhere in an input script to become part of a new input
command.  For variable styles that store multiple strings, the
"next"_next.html command can be used to increment which string is
assigned to the variable.  Variables of style {equal} can be evaluated
to produce a single numeric value which can be output directly via the
"print"_print.html command.

In the discussion that follows, the "name" of the variable is the
arbitrary string that is the 1st argument in the variable command.
This name can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores.
The "string" is one or more of the subsequent arguments.  The "string"
can be simple text as in the 1st example above, it can contain other
variables as in the 2nd example, or it can be a formula as in the 3rd
example.  The "value" is the numeric quantity resulting from
evaluation of the string.  Note that the same string can generate
different values when it is evaluated at different times during a
simulation.

IMPORTANT NOTE: When a variable command is encountered in the input
script and the variable name has already been specified, the command
is ignored.  This means variables can NOT be re-defined in an input
script (with 2 exceptions, read further).  This is to allow an input
script to be processed multiple times without resetting the variables;
see the "jump"_jump.html or "include"_include.html commands.  It also
means that using the "command-line switch"_Section_start.html#2_6 -var
will override a corresponding variable setting in the input script.

There are two exceptions to this rule.  First, variables of style
{equal} ARE redefined each time the command is encountered.  This
allows them to be reset, when their formulas contain a substitution
for another variable, e.g. $x.  This can be useful in a loop.  This
also means an {equal}-style variable will re-define a command-line
switch -var setting, so an {index}-style variable should be used for
such settings instead, as in bench/in.lj.

Second, as described below, if a variable is iterated on to the end of
its list of strings via the "next"_next.html command, it is removed
from the list of active variables, and is thus available to be
re-defined in a subsequent variable command.

:line

"This section"_Section_commands.html#3_2 of the manual explains how
occurrences of a variable name in an input script line are replaced by
the variable's string.  The variable name can be referenced as $x if
the name "x" is a single character, or as $\{LoopVar\} if the name
"LoopVar" is one or more characters.

As described below, for variable styles {index}, {loop}, {universe},
and {uloop}, which string is assigned to a variable can be incremented
via the "next"_next.html command.  When there are no more strings to
assign, the variable is exhausted and a flag is set that causes the
next "jump"_jump.html command encountered in the input script to be
skipped.  This enables the construction of simple loops in the input
script that are iterated over and then exited from.

:line

For the {index} style, one or more strings are specified.  Initially,
the 1st string is assigned to the variable.  Each time a
"next"_next.html command is used with the variable name, the next
string is assigned.  All processors assign the same string to the
variable.

{Index} style variables with a single string value can also be set by
using the command-line switch -var; see "this
section"_Section_start.html#2_6 for details.

The {loop} style is identical to the {index} style except that the
strings are the integers from 1 to N.  This allows generation of a
long list of runs (e.g. 1000) without having to list N strings in the
input script.  Initially, the string "1" is assigned to the variable.
Each time a "next"_next.html command is used with the variable name,
the next string ("2", "3", etc) is assigned.  All processors assign
the same string to the variable.

For the {world} style, one or more strings are specified.  There must
be one string for each processor partition or "world".  See "this
section"_Section_start.html#2_6 of the manual for information on
running SPPARKS with multiple partitions via the "-partition"
command-line switch.  This variable command assigns one string to each
world.  All processors in the world are assigned the same string.  The
next command cannot be used with {equal} style variables, since there
is only one value per world.  This style of variable is useful when
you wish to run different simulations on different partitions.

For the {universe} style, one or more strings are specified.  There
must be at least as many strings as there are processor partitions or
"worlds".  See "this page"_Section_start.html#2_6 for information on
running SPPARKS with multiple partitions via the "-partition"
command-line switch.  This variable command initially assigns one
string to each world.  When a "next"_next.html command is encountered
using this variable, the first processor partition to encounter it, is
assigned the next available string.  This continues until all the
variable strings are consumed.  Thus, this command can be used to run
50 simulations on 8 processor partitions.  The simulations will be run
one after the other on whatever partition becomes available, until
they are all finished.  {Universe} style variables are incremented
using the files "tmp.spparks.variable" and "tmp.spparks.variable.lock"
which you will see in your directory during such a SPPARKS run.

The {uloop} style is identical to the {universe} style except that the
strings are the integers from 1 to N.  This allows generation of long
list of runs (e.g. 1000) without having to list N strings in the input
script.

:line

For the {equal} style, a single string is specified which represents a
formula that will be evaluated afresh each time the variable is used.
If you want spaces in the string, enclose it in double quotes so the
parser will treat it as a single argument.  For {equal} style
variables the formula computes a scalar quantity, which becomes the
value of the variable whenever it is evaluated.

Note that {equal} variables can produce different values at different
stages of the input script or at different times during a run.

The next command cannot be used with {equal} style variables, since
there is only one string.

The formula for an {equal} variable can contain a variety of
quantities.  The syntax for each kind of quantity is simple, but
multiple quantities can be nested and combined in various ways to
build up formulas of arbitrary complexity.  For example, this is a
valid (though strange) variable formula:

variable x equal "2.0 + v_MyTemp / pow(v_Volume,1/3)" :pre

Specifically, an formula can contain numbers, math operations, and
references to other variables.

Number: 0.2, 100, 1.0e20, -15.4, etc
Constants: PI
Keywords: time, nglobal
Math operations: (), -x, x+y, x-y, x*y, x/y, x^y, sqrt(x), exp(x), ln(x), log(x), sin(x), cos(x), tan(x), asin(x), acos(x), atan(x), ceil(x), floor(x), round(x)
Other variables: v_abc, v_n :tb(s=:)


The keywords currently allowed in a formula are {time} and {nglobal}.
{Time} is the current simulation time.  {Nglobal} is the number of
sites in the model.

Math operations are written in the usual way, where the "x" and "y" in
the examples above can be another section of the formula.  Operators
are evaluated left to right and have the usual precedence: unary minus
before exponentiation ("^"), exponentiation before multiplication and
division, and multiplication and division before addition and
subtraction.  Parenthesis can be used to group one or more portions of
a formula and enforce a desired order of operations.  Additional math
operations can be specified as keywords followed by a parenthesized
argument, e.g. sqrt(v_ke).  Note that ln() is the natural log; log()
is the base 10 log.  The ceil(), floor(), and round() operations are
those in the C math library.  Ceil() is the smallest integer not less
than its argument.  Floor() if the largest integer not greater than
its argument.  Round() is the nearest integer to its argument.

The current values of other variables can be accessed by prepending a
"v_" to the variable name.  This will cause that variable to be
evaluated.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you define variables in circular manner like this:

variable a equal v_b
variable b equal v_a
print $a :pre

then SPPARKS will run for a while when the print statement is invoked!

Another way to reference a variable in a formula is using the $x form
instead of v_x.  There is a subtle difference between the two
references that has to do with when the evaluation of the included
variable is done.

Using a $x, the value of the include variable is substituted for
immediately when the line is read from the input script, just as it
would be in other input script command.  This could be the desired
behavior if a static value is desired.  Or it could be the desired
behavior for an equal-style variable if the variable command appears
in a loop (see the "jump"_jump.html and "next"_next.html commands),
since the substitution will be performed anew each time thru the loop
as the command is re-read.  Note that if the variable formula is
enclosed in double quotes, this prevents variable substitution and
thus an error will be generated when the variable formula is
evaluated.

Using a v_x, the value of the included variable will not be accessed
until the variable formula is evaluated.  Thus the value may change
each time the evaluation is performed.  This may also be desired
behavior.

As an example, if the current simulation box volume is 1000.0, then
these lines:

variable x equal vol
variable y equal 2*$x :pre

will associate the equation string "2*1000.0" with variable y.

By contrast, these lines:

variable x equal vol
variable y equal 2*v_x :pre

will associate the equation string "2*v_x" with variable y.

Thus if the variable y were evaluated periodically during a run where
the box volume changed, the resulting value would always be 2000.0 for
the first case, but would change dynamically for the second case.

:line

[Restrictions:]

All {universe}- and {uloop}-style variables defined in an input script
must have the same number of values.

[Related commands:]

"next"_next.html, "jump"_jump.html, "include"_include.html,
"print"_print.html

[Default:] none
